## Developer documentation

You can use a dev container in VSCode to ease development.


### To deploy:
#### SC64
* Download the deployer [here](https://github.com/Polprzewodnikowy/SummerCart64/releases/download/v2.18.0/sc64-deployer-windows-v2.18.0.zip)
* Extract and place `sc64deployer.exe` in the `tools/sc64` directory.

Make sure that your firmware is compatible (currently v2.18.0+)
See: [here](https://github.com/Polprzewodnikowy/SummerCart64/blob/v2.18.0/docs/00_quick_startup_guide.md#firmware-backupupdate)

##### From the devcontainer
It is not currently possible to directly communicate with USB devices.
BUT, as a workaround you can use a proxy TCP/IP connection
Set up a proxy: open a terminal window, `cd ./tools/sc64` and then `./sc64deployer.exe server`

Then in the dev container, use `make run` or `make run-debug`


##### From your host (Windows) OS

* Run `./localdeploy.bat` from the terminal

Toggle the N64 power switch to load the ROM.

`ms-vscode.makefile-tools` will help (installed automatically in dev container).
TODO: it does not yet work with `F5`: see https://devblogs.microsoft.com/cppblog/now-announcing-makefile-support-in-visual-studio-code/
WORKAROUND: in the dev container terminal, use make directly, i.e.: `make`
The ROM can be found in the `output` directory.

NOTE: a "release" version of the SC64 menu is called `sc64menu.n64` and can be created for when you want to add it directly to the SDCard. This is generated by running `make all` or running `make sc64`.

#### Ares Emulator
For ease of development and debugging, the menu ROM is able to run in the Ares emulator (without most flashcart features).

* Ensure you have the Ares emulator on your computer.
* Load the `N64FlashcartMenu.n64` ROM.

#### Others
* Add the required file to the correct folder on your SD card.


## Update Libdragon submodule
This repo currently uses the `preview` branch as a submodule at a specific commit.
To update to the latest version, use `git submodule update --remote` from the terminal.

## Generate documentation
Run `doxygen` from the dev container terminal.
Make sure you fix the warnings before creating a PR!
Generated documentation is located in `output/docs` folder and auto-published to the `gh-pages` branch when merged with `main`.

#### Test generated docs
`cd output/docs`
`jekyll serve`


Once merged, they can be viewed [here](https://polprzewodnikowy.github.io/N64FlashcartMenu/)
